# 0001 FZone Core Protocol

## Introduction

### Overview

FZone is an application-layer protocol for decentralized
publish-subscribe communication.

### Terminology

#### Blob

The unit of data in FZone. It is uniquely identified by SHA-256 of its
content.

#### Channel

The unit to which one could subscribe.

#### Entry

The unit which published to a channel, i.e. signed by Channel's
signing key.

## Request

### Channel Request

Channel request is used to get the ID of the root blob of a channel by
its verify key. The root blob of a channel contains references (direct
or indirect) to all entries of a channel known by a node.

### Blob Request

Blob request is used to get the content of a blob by its ID.

## FZEncode

FZEncode is an encoding inspired by netstring and bencode for encoding
header in a blob. It supports four different type of values.

### Integer

Non-positive integers are encoded in base ten in ASCII and followed by
an `i`. For example, `42` is encoded as `42i`

Negative intergers are followed by an `n`. For example, `-1` is
encoded as `1n`.

### UTF-8 String

When encoded, an UTF-8 strings is prefixed by its length encoded in
base ten in ASCII and `"`. For example, `hello` is encoded as
`5"hello`

If it consists only one alphabetic character, it does not have to be
prefixed. For example, `a` could be encoded as `a`.

### Lists

When encoded, a list is prefixed by the number of its elements encoded
in base ten in ASCII and `[`. For example, `[1,"a"]` in Python is
encoded as `3[1ia`.

Lists may contain any of fzencoded type.

### Dictionaries

When encoded, a list is prefixed by the number of its key-value pairs
encoded in base ten in ASCII and `{`. For example, `{"a":1}` in Python
is encoded as `1{a1i`.

Note that the keys must be fzencoded UTF-8 strings. The values may be
any fzencoded type. Keys must appear in sorted order.

## Blob Format

As with message defined by IETF RFC 822, a blob consists of a
fzencoded integer which indicates the length (number of bytes) of all
headers, one or two headers and body, while a header consists of a
fzencoded dict.

A blob with two headers is considered as an entry. The first header
consists of signature, the public key of the signing private key and a
timestamp, which is a fzencoded integer indicating the number of
seconds since epoch.
